 By Phindi Maduna On 3 to 10 March 2018, Brand South Africa partnered with RapidLion – the South African International Film Festival to once again celebrate filmmaking from Africa, its diaspora, and the BRICS formation countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) at the Market Theatre in Newtown, Johannesburg. One the topics that were discussed in some of the sessions was the role the arts, particularly the South African film industry, can play to promote the Nation Brand domestically and internationally. “Brand South Africa’s role is to manage the reputation of the country, and the film industry is a key selling point of our competitive edge as a nation. Not only is it one of our strengths as a nation, it also presents huge tourism and investment opportunities for the country” said Dr Petrus de Kock, General Manager: Research at Brand South Africa. South Africa’s film industry is quite critical in how the country is able to showcase itself in a positive light. Domestically, South Africa is capable of producing world – class productions that are internationally acclaimed. Films like “Tsotsi”, “District Nine”, “Long Walk to Freedom” and most recently “Kalushi” and “Inxeba” (The Wound), have successfully addressed a wide range of social, economic and political issues in South Africa whilst promoting and creating awareness of South Africa as a culturally diverse country. South Africa also has top – notch, home grown talent that can compete with the best in the world; John Kani, Mbongeni Ngema, and Anant Singh, to mention just a few. The local film industry has been able to positively influence the South African Nation Brand by building on our reputation for breath-taking and adaptable locations; highly skilled film crews, exceptional production facilities, and well equipped production companies who have been central to the production of international films and television shows. Some of these include “Avengers: The Age of Ultron”, “Lord of War”, “Blood Diamond”, and the fourth season of “Homeland”. The benefits of South Africa’s growing film industry are clear, it brings foreign direct investment into the country. This involves the transfer of skills and development, creation of employment opportunities for many and enhancement the country’s international reputation. Foreign Direct Investment is a crucial driver of economic growth and the film industry has made a positive impact in this regard. At this year’s festival, on 6 March, Brand South Africa hosted a consultation session with industry stakeholders from the public, private and civil society sectors under the theme Closing the loop – A strategy towards a sustainable independent and prosperous South African film industry. This session aimed to interrogate, and provide feedback, input, and ideas on better developing the industry. In this workshop Brand South Africa engaged with filmmakers on what the best strategy is to develop a film industry that the country can rely on to promote South Africa internationally on a long-term basis. “We recommend that the government creates a parallel film industry eco-system for the support of black film practitioners and make sure that all components of that eco-system and all the participants within that eco-system work together to maximize profits that are ploughed back into that eco-system to make more profitable films. This is what we call the ‘Closing the loop’ strategy”. Eric Miyeni, founder of RapidLion – South African Film Festival. It was concluded that coordination between all industry stakeholders is needed moving forward.