Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has arrived in Davos, Switzerland, to Lead The South African delegation at the World Economic Forum 2018.  Davos, Switzerland – The Deputy President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa, today arrived in Davos, Switzerland, to lead a high-level government, business and labour delegation to the 2018 World Economic Forum annual meeting scheduled from 23-26 January 2018. This year’s event is held under the theme, “Creating a Shared Future in a Fractured World”. Deputy President Ramaphosa will join various discussion platforms in Davos with an aim to develop a response to new strategies towards transforming governance in various parts of the world. South Africa last week announced a number of measures to strengthen governance and management of its State Owned Enterprises. This is part of an ongoing broader effort to restore confidence in the economy. The South African government will continue to act decisively to address challenges at its key state-owned enterprises to restore public and investor confidence and to ensure that they fulfil their economic and developmental mandates. The WEF Davos forum presents South Africa with a platform to showcase its attractiveness as an investment destination and trade partner; set out plans that are unfolding to secure improved and inclusive economic growth, and contribute to efforts to respond to societal challenges globally. The South African Team under the leadership of Deputy President Ramaphosa will utilise the opportunity presented by the World Economic Forum to communicate that South Africa remains open for business and highlight the work that the government working together with business and labour is doing to ensure an improved economic outlook and nurturing for a higher economic growth trajectory. The delegation will also re-emphasise that South Africa has a stable and predictable macroeconomic framework which continues to underpin economic policy, ensuring that the country remains attractive for investment. The team will also be placing emphasis on its plans to transforms the economy to ensure that its citizens enter new jobs and benefit from the new investments attracted in partnership with business and organised labour. 14 Actions to boost investor confidence have been developed in 2017 with specific deadlines with deliverables including to ensure continuity of fiscal consolidation trajectory and the funding and broader reforms in the areas of governance and private sector participation in SOEs as well as finalising outstanding legislation and policy positions to enhance investor confidence. Deputy President Ramaphosa will also hold various meetings with high-level political and business leaders from various countries. The South African delegation led by Deputy President Ramaphosa includes a broad range of leadership from various sectors of the economy and society, with Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba as the lead Minister and coordinator. Deputy President Ramaphosa will be supported by the Minister in The Presidency for Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation, Jeff Radebe; Minister of Economic Development, Ebrahim Patel; Minister of Trade and Industry, Rob Davies; Minister of Public Works, Nkosinathi Nhleko and Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane. Enquiries Mr Tyrone Seale: +27 83 5757 440. Acting Spokesperson for the Deputy President of South Africa.