Investment opportunities in South Africa will promoted to global business and other international stakeholders at Davos-Klosters. The South African delegation to the 48th World Economic Forum meeting this month will be led by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. The annual meeting of global leaders from business, government, civil society, academia and arts and culture, takes place from 23 to 26 January in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland. The forum is an important platform used by South Africa to market and showcase the country to global business and other key international stakeholders. Ramaphosa will be accompanied by several ministers and business leaders, with Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba taking the lead in promoting investment opportunities in South Africa. Brand South Africa will be part of the delegation, showcasing “South Africa: an ideal partner for growth”. This year’s meeting takes place under the theme “Creating a Shared Future in a Fractured World”, with some 2,500 participants collaborating to find ways of solving global challenges such as sustainable development, inclusive growth and managing the Fourth Industrial Revolution. “The 48th World Economic Forum Annual Meeting therefore aims to rededicate leaders from all walks of life to developing a shared narrative to improve the state of the world,” the forum notes on its website. Co-chairs of the event include: International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde; Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg; general secretary of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) in Belgium Sharan Burrow; director-general of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Geneva Fabiola Gianotti; IBM CEO Ginni Rometty; ENGIE Group CEO Isabelle Kocher; and the founder and president of Mann Deshi Mahila Bank and Mann Deshi Foundation in India, Chetna Sinha. American President Donald Trump has also announced that he plans to attend. For more information about the World Economic Forum, visit their website. Would you like to use this article in your publication or on your website? See Using Brand South Africa material.   