Brand South Africa continuously aims to encourage all South Africans to play their part towards progressive change, that promotes a free and fair society for all to live in. “This 16 day of activism against women and children abuse has reached unacceptable levels in Gauteng and South Africa as a whole” said, Gauteng Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane at the launch of the annual 16 Days of Activism campaign. The theme #HearMeToo follows from the United Nations Secretary-General’s UNiTE to End Violence against Women Campaign (UNiTE), which calls for global action to increase awareness, galvanise advocacy efforts and share of knowledge and innovations. The objectives of the 16 Days Campaign are to: Brand South Africa reiterates the call to fight against the abuse of women and child with a campaign #IAM. The campaign is aimed to engage men to break the silence against sexual and gender-based violence in the country and drive this to be a reality for all. “We have recently seen men uniting in one voice to break the silence and showing unity in the fight for protecting women and children, for instance the #NOTINMYNAME movement. We commend these men for taking charge. This is why Brand South Africa found it important to support this campaign and charge men with the responsibility of their role in protecting their loved ones, hence the #IAM campaign”, said Brand South Africa’s General Manager for Marketing, Ms Sithembile Ntombela The campaign calls on men of diverse ethnicity to participate. Filmed in black t-shirts, wearing red lipstick with the words #IAM highlighting their role of protecting women and children. “This campaign does not start nor end during the 16 Days of Activism against gender based violence, it is an everyday reality that we need to face and mobilize community members, men and women to take a stand and report, stop abuse whether it is emotionally, physically or sexually. Let us all have a voice against this social ill and construct a nation that is peaceful and unified” adds Ms Ntombela. Call the Stop Gender-Based Violence helpline (0800 150 150).