Brand South Africa confident of the country’s transition Johannesburg, Thursday 15th February 2018 – Brand South Africa welcomes the political certainty following the resignation of President Jacob Zuma yesterday, 14th February 2018. This once again shows the strength of our democracy. Brand South Africa has confidence in our constitutional democracy and institutions to manage the transition to a new administration. Brand South Africa’s CEO, Dr Kingsley Makhubela says; “we acknowledge that the country has seen a lot of speculation in the last few weeks, regarding the office of the President, however, we have full confidence in the new leadership of the ruling party as well as our institutions to take the country forward”. For more information or to set up interviews, please contact: Ntombi Ntanzi
Tel: +27 11 712 5071
Mobile: +27 (0) 81 704 1488
Email: ntombin@brandsouthafrica.com
Visit www.brandsouthafrica.com Tsabeng Nthite
Tel: +27 11 712 5000
Mobile: +27 (0) 76 371 6810
Email: tsabengn@brandsouthafrica.com
Visit www.brandsouthafrica.com Notes to the Editor About Brand South Africa
Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, in order to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship. About Play Your Part
Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa.  It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live is good for everyone. Play Your Part is aimed at all South Africans – from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young.  It aims to encourage South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all.