Play Your Part episode 22: get involved The next episode of the Play Your Part Television Series will air on Saturday, 17 February 2018 on SABC 2 at 18h00. Strategic Objective: Improved Nation Brand reputation and perceptions amongst South Africans Positioning angle of the episodes: Aligned to health, Innovation, and active citizenship in respect of volunteerism. Episode 22: Anchor pillar is active citizenship (volunteerism) It features the Kanyamazane Government Senior Citizens Social Club, Human Writes social innovation start-up and Ikamva Labantu charity organisaton, the Hands of Compassion Christian Community and University of Free State student, Andile Putu’s involvement in the Enactus Entrepreneurial Community. The Kanyamazane Government Senior Citizens Social Club, is a gathering of retired public servants who use their knowledge on health and wellness to assist in the health care of citizens in the community. The Human writ.es social innovation start-up improves child and adult literacy through the Ikamva Labantu charity organisation based in Cape Town. Under the guidance of Pastors Alan and Xana MacCauley, the Johannesburg based Hands of Compassion Christian Community affords second chances to young people. Andile Putu oversaw the Enactus Entrepreneurial Community while he was a student at the University of the Free State in an attempt to assist HIV positive orphans and reviving the manufacturing industry in the Free State province. Play Your Part is broadcast at 18:00 on every Saturday on SABC2. To get involved in playing your part in South Africa: Check out the conversation on Twitter: #GetInvolved Tell us how you Play Your Part through our social media channels: Follow us on Twitter: @PlayYourPartSA; Follow Brand South Africa on Twitter: @Brand_SA; or Like us on Facebook: Official Brand South Africa. Play Your Part episode 23: get involved The next episode of the Play Your Part Television Series will air on Saturday 24 February 2018 on SABC 2 at 18h00. Strategic Objective: Improved Nation Brand reputation and perceptions amongst South Africans Positioning angle of the episodes: Aligned to health, Innovation, and active citizenship in respect of volunteerism Episode 23: Anchored on pillars of mentoring, skills development, health and education. These are strategically aligned to priorities of the NDP. Artist Avashoni Mainganye, has been instrumental in helping young aspiring artists in Venda to develop and market their works. He tells us about his passion for the arts and mentoring young artists. Finance and accounting professional Rivoningo Mhlari, talks about the importance of harvesting information and presenting it in a contemporary way to clients in various industries. Geoff Johnson is the man behind the ‘10th province of South Africa’. He has managed to rally the expatriate community behind him to raise funds for the benefit of communities in South Africa. One of his main fundraising efforts has been the South African Charity Golf Day. The Themba Community Development which initially focused on poverty alleviation in communities, has taken the reduction of the devastating effects of HIV in communities at the heart of their work. Play Your Part is broadcast at 18:00 on every Saturday on SABC2. To get involved in playing your part in South Africa: Check out the conversation on Twitter: #GetInvolved Tell us how you Play Your Part through our social media channels: Follow us on Twitter: @PlayYourPartSA; Follow Brand South Africa on Twitter: @Brand_SA; or Like us on Facebook: Official Brand South Africa.